In this section, we'll learn about firewalls.
By the end of this section,
we will understand what a firewall does,
differentiate between the primary types of firewalls,
breakdown the anatomy of a firewall rule,
and then we'll craft our own rule.
Where does firewall fit in our three component model of security?
It has all three, prevention, detection, and response.
Just a high-level refresher here,
we will get into specifics in a bit.
A firewall is a network device that monitors incoming and outgoing traffic.
It allows or denies traffic based on
a defined set of rules configured by the administrator.
But before we discuss further what a firewall does,
let's talk about what a firewall does not do.
At it's most basic level,
a firewall does not know if traffic is good or traffic is bad.
It simply allows the traffic you tell it to allow,
it denies the traffic you tell it to deny.
No more, no less.
A firewall is one of the most basic components
of an organization's security and risk infrastructure.
Your business insurance may require a firewall,
and most certainly if your organization is subject
to compliance regulation is required to have one.
What if you run a small business?
Why would a hacker want access to your specific network?
A significant portion of internet traffic consists of automated bots,
worms, and general malware.
Even if a hacker isn't after your company specifically,
these automated threats have created
a level playing field where we're all susceptible to attack.
Relying only on the firewalls on your individual machines will allow threats
to infiltrate the network and either spend time attempting different vulnerabilities,
or using your network as a launching point for attacks on other organizations.
This can cause performance issues with your network,
email flow, and general computing.
To put it simply, you need a well-maintained firewall.
There are many different types and subtypes of firewalls out there.
We're going to focus on the three primary types.
The network or hardware-based firewall,
the host based firewall,
and the application firewall.
When you read the word firewall,
you are most likely thinking of the hardware-based firewall.
It is a device that resides on the edge of your network and
separates your internal or local network from the outside world.
A firewall is a computing device with
components specifically designed for its intended purpose.
It has a CPU, RAM,
long-term storage for operating system and rules
usually in the form of flash storage or MB RAM,
which is non-volatile RAM.
A firewall will have at least two network interfaces inside and outside.
It may have additional physical interfaces as well as logical sub interfaces.
A host based firewall typically runs within an operating system on a computer.
Think Windows firewall, Mac OS firewall,
and IP tables on your Linux distro.
Here, we have an important difference in scope.
A host based firewall typically protects only the computer and services it is running on.
It does not generally protect any other machines.
It can often be used in conjunction with
the network firewall as an additional layer of security.
An application-based firewall operates at layer seven of the OSI model.
It is generally concerned with the protection of
applications as opposed to general network security.
Think SQL injection attacks,
cross-site scripting attacks, and DDOS attacks.
Application firewalls are often used in conjunction network firewalls.